PDS_JP2 Binary Distribution Installation


This is the INSTALL file included with the binary distribution of the HiRISE
PDS_JP2 software subsystem.

Documentation:

Documentation files in HTML format are included in the docs directory.
The software Overview (docs/html/HiRISE/PDS_JP2/index.html) is the best
place to start. The collection of documentation files is not location
dependent; they can be moved wherever is appropriate for the local site.
The documentation contains links to http://pirlwww.lpl.arizona.edu/
where the documentation for dependent support libraries is located.

Install procedures:

The name of the distribution package filename will indicate on what kind
of system the binaries were built. The format of the filename is
PDS_JP2-<version>_<OS>_<arch>.tar.gz; where <version> is the version
number of the PDS_JP2 distribution and <OS> and <arch> are the operating
system and hardware architecture used to build the distribution. Unpack
the distribution package file into a convenient location:

tar xzf PDS_JP2-<version>_<OS>_<arch>.tar.gz

This will produce a PDS_JP2-<version>_<OS>_<arch> directory
($PDS_JP2_DIR for short). The distribution files can be used in place;
no additional installation is required. However, it is usually
convenient to install the distribution files in locations where
application, library and documentation files are typically found, but
these locations depend on the particular system and how it is being
administered.

An Installer script is included that provides assistance in copying the
distribution files to appropriate installation locations. To use it:

cd $PDS_JP2_DIR
./Installer

Prompts will be given for the library, application and documention
installation pathnames. All pathnames will be confirmed writable by the
user before the installation of the distribution files is completed.

An Uninstaller script is also provided that can selectively remove the
application, library and documentation files. These scripts must be run
in their original $PDS_JP2_DIR directory location along with the other
files of the distribution package.

The following sections provide details about the installation
requirements.

Applications:

These are command line user interface (CLUI) applications. The command
line syntax usage and description of how they operate is located in the
documentation. Just entering the application name to a shell will print
a CLUI syntax summary; use the -Help option to get a complete syntax
usage description.

The binary executable files for the PDS_to_JP2 and JP2_to_PDS
applications are in the bin directory. They must be found in the command
PATH of the user's shell.

One solution is to copy the application files to a system location where
third party executables are usually found. This location is system
dependent; the /usr/local/bin directory is a good posibility. You may
need the assistance of a system administrator to do this.

Another solution is to set the PATH environment variable to contain the
pathname to the bin directory in this distribution. For example, users
of the csh shell (or one of its variants) might add the following lines
to their .login file in their home directory:

if (-d $PDS_JP2_DIR/bin) then
  if ($?PATH) then
    setenv PATH $PDS_JP2_DIR/bin:$PATH
  else
    setenv PATH $PDS_JP2_DIR/bin
endif

For users of the Bourne shell (or one of its variants) the following
lines added to their .profile file in the home directory are equivalent:

if [ -d $PDS_JP2_DIR/bin ] ; then
  if [ -z $PATH ] ; then
    export PATH=$PDS_JP2_DIR/bin
  else
    export PATH=$PDS_JP2_DIR/bin:$PATH
  fi
fi

After a login the command PATH will be set correctly.

These applications depend on the included libraries and the system
libraries which are dynamically linked at runtime.

Libraries:

Other than system libraries all third party libraries on which the
PDS_JP2 applications depend are included in the lib directory. The
applications are dynamically linked to these libraries so the runtime
linker must know where to find them.

As with the binary executable application files, one solution is to copy
the libraries, and their linked names, to an appropriate location where
third party libraries are usually found. This location is system
dependent; the /usr/local/lib directory is a good posibility. You may
need the assistance of a system administrator to do this. Alternatively,
the LD_LIBRARY_PATH (DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH for Apple's OS X operating system)
environment variable may be set to contain the pathname to the lib
directory in this distribution. This is done in the same way as was done
for the PATH environment variable. Don't forget to use DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH
instead of LD_LIBRARY_PATH on an Apple OS X (Darwin) system.

The system libraries should all be included as part of the operating
system installation. Currently these operating systems and hardware
architectures, with the listed system libraries, are supported:

    Darwin (Apple OS X) 10.4 on powerpc and i386
        /usr/lib/libSystem.B.dylib
        /usr/lib/libgcc_s.1.dylib
        /usr/lib/libmx.A.dylib (powerpc only)
        /usr/lib/libstdc++.6.dylib
	FreeBSD 5.4 on i386
        libc.so.5
        libm.so.3
        libpthread.so.1
        libstdc++.so.4
    Linux (Suse) 10.3 on X86_64
        /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2
        libc.so.6
        libcrypto.so.0.9.8
        libcurl.so.3
        libdl.so.2
        libgcc_s.so.1
        libidn.so.11
		libjpeg.so.62
        libm.so.6
        libpng.so.3
        libpthread.so.0
        librt.so.1
        libssl.so.0.9.8
        libstdc++.so.6
		libtiff.so.3
        libz.so.1
    Solaris (Sun) 9 on sparc v9 (64 bit)
        /usr/platform/SUNW,Sun-Fire-V210/lib/sparcv9/libc_psr.so.1
        /usr/platform/SUNW,Sun-Fire-V210/lib/sparcv9/libmd5_psr.so.1
        libaio.so.1
        libc.so.1
        libdl.so.1
        libgcc_s.so.1
        libm.so.1
        libmd5.so.1
        libmp.so.2
        libnsl.so.1
        librt.so.1
        libsocket.so.1
        libstdc++.so.5
        libthread.so.1
        libz.so.1

Source code:

PDS_JP2 is free software distributed under the terms of the GNU General
Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation. A source
code distribution should be available from the same site where the
binary distribution was obtained.

Contact:

Questions or comments about the PDS_JP2 software may be sent to
PDS_JP2@pirl.lpl.arizona.edu which will be delivered to the developer
contact.

In general, when operational problems occur, an error message is
provided describing the problem and identifying the software classes
involved. Problem reports should include all this information. Comments
and suggestions that could improve this application's usefulness are
welcome.

Credits:

This software was developed at -

    The Planetary Image Research Laboratory (PIRL)
        http://pirl.lpl.arizona.edu/
    HiRISE Operations Center (HiROC)
		http://hirise.lpl.arizona.edu
    Department of Planetary Sciences and Lunar and Planetary Lab (LPL)
        http://www.lpl.arizona.edu/
    The University of Arizona
        http://arizona.edu/

for the purposes of managing observation data sets produced by -

    The High Resolution Imaging Science Experiment (HiRISE) instrument
	of the NASA Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO) mission
        http://marsprogram.jpl.nasa.gov/mro/

Copyrights:

The PDS_JP2 software is Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Arizona Board of Regents
on behalf of the Planetary Image Research Laboratory, Lunar and
Planetary Laboratory at the University of Arizona.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

The Kakadu Software libraries are included in the binary applications
distribution for use with the PDS_JP2 applications only. They are
Copyright (C) Dr. David Taubman, all rights reserved, and licensed by
NewSouth Innovations Pty Limited ACN 000 263 025 ("NSi"). Please visit
the Kakadu Software web site (http://www.kakadusoftware.com/) for
further information.


INSTALL-binary,v 1.7 2009/05/21 06:46:42 castalia Exp
