UA::HiRISE::PDS_JP2


The PDS_JP2 software package contains applications and a library
of reusable C++ classes for the conversion between PDS uncompressed
image data files with an attached metadata label and a compressed JP2
image data file with a detached PDS metadata label file.

Both source code an binary distributions are provided. The
INSTALL-source file describes the installation process for the source
distribution. The INSTALL-binary file describes the installation process
for the binary distribution, and Installer and Uninstaller scripts are
also included. In addition, the binary distribution includes all the
third party libraries required to run the applications. Both
distributions include a complete set of documentation in the form of
Doxygen generated HTML files.

Visit the http://pirl.lpl.arizona.edu/software/PDS_JP2 web site for
on-line information.

This software was developed at the Planetary Image Research Laboratory
(PIRL; http://pirl.lpl.arizona.edu/) HiRISE Operations Center (HiROC) of
the University of Arizona (http://arizona.edu/) Department of Planetary
Sciences (http://www.lpl.arizona.edu/) for the purpose of managing
observation data sets produced by the High Resolution Imaging Science
Experiment (HiRISE; http://hirise.lpl.arizona.edu/) instrument of the
NASA Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO; http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/mro/)
mission.


Copyright (C) 2006-2008  Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of the
Planetary Image Research Laboratory, Lunar and Planetary Laboratory at
the University of Arizona.

This software is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
with this software; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.


The Kakadu Software libraries are included in the binary applications
distribution for use with the PDS_JP2 applications only. They are
Copyright (C) Dr. David Taubman, all rights reserved, and licensed by
NewSouth Innovations Pty Limited ACN 000 263 025 ("NSi"). Please visit
the <a href="http://www.kakadusoftware.com/" target="_top">Kakadu
Software</a> web site for further information.


README,v 2.1 2008/02/26 02:02:35 castalia Exp

